
Problem Recognition

Healthcare is the most critical aspect of our society, and many healthcare providers
face challenges to offer practical and active services to patients. Considering the
strength of our IITG including students, faculty, and staff, many people enter and exit
the hospital in a day, and maintaining their records safely is tedious yet important.
To reduce this type of burden and to manage the financial, administration, and
clinical aspects, the Health Care Management System came into existence.

The implementation of HMS in our IITG Hospital will enable it to make decisions
about the way they’re run, and the work they perform which will in turn help us treat
patients in a better way, access their real-time reports, and other information, their
past clinical data and more can be done quickly which will lead to best patient
outcomes.



Importance of having this system

   ● Efficiency: Think of how many people per day visit our hospital. All this data
     must be reported in detail for effective use in a healthcare database. To
     ensure data is optimally recorded, a healthcare database must be
     well-designed and simple while supporting in-depth information. Data
     processing must also be efficient in these databases, so healthcare
     professionals can quickly and easily access relevant information when
     necessary.


   ● Healthcare Quality Assessment: Improvement in anything is always
     dependent on careful observation and deep analysis of the present structure
     of that thing. Through this system, we can consider factors such as access to
     pertinent information, availability and affordability of services, use of
     innovation, and barriers to seeking healthcare which will help decision-makers
     to deeply understand the quality of ongoing healthcare operations.


   ● Tracking and Monitoring: With help from this system, medical professionals
     can use reporting and logging tools to keep track of operations. This helps
     them monitor ongoing health care services and improve the quality of patient
     care—by gaining statistics on costs, pervasive diseases, and appropriate
     treatments, medical staff can more easily provide patients with confident,
     efficient treatments.
     
     
Evaluation and Synthesis

The portal includes:
   ● Registering a patient on the portal.
   ● Maintaining the medical record for each patient.
   ● Maintaining patient’s diagnosis details, prescription, tests taken, bills paid, and
      medicine(s)
   ● Keeping patients’ records up to date and storing their records in the system
      for future purposes.
   ● Maintaining employee details which consist of details of doctors, staff and nurses.
   ● Setting up a patient's medical appointment.

Interfaces include:
    ● A Login screen for entering user id, password, and role (admin or patient or
       any employee). Access to further screens is based on the role of the user as
       they differ from role to role.
    ● A Home Page showing the complete statistics of HMS and contains links to
       other pages of the portal.
    ● A Patient Registration Form to register a new patient into the system.
    ● A Medical Report which acts the same as the medical booklet of our hospital,
       containing the details of the patient, bills paid, tests were taken, method of
       diagnosis and prescription of the patient in any past or present issues.
       
       
Explanation of ER Diagram

   ● Each patient is identified by a unique identifying id i.e patient id, name,
     gender, email, date of birth, phone no, hostel, age, blood group, arrival date recorded.
   ● Each room is uniquely identified by room id.
   ● Each employee is uniquely identified by employee id, name, email, phone no,
       date of birth, age, address, joining date, work experience, gender.
   ●   An employee can be either a doctor, a nurse or staff member.
   ●   Furthermore, for each doctor, specialisation and qualification are recorded.
   ●   For each nurse, qualification is recorded.
   ●   For each staff member, type is recorded.
   ●   For each nurse, the patient count is recorded.
   ●   There are several medicines available at the hospital. Each medicine is
       identified by its name, cost, and company.
   ●   A patient can avail of tests available at the hospital. Tests are uniquely
       identified by test id, name, and cost.
   ●   Each patient is assigned to a doctor. A patient can be assigned to several
       doctors and a doctor can be assigned to several patients.
   
   
Logical Database Requirements

The proposed information system contains the following data tables in its database
collection

   ●   Patient
   ●   Employee
   ●   Doctor
   ●   Nurse
   ●   Staff
   ●   Tests
   ●   Medicine
   ●   Room
   ●   Bill
   ●   Appointment
   ●   Prescription


   
References

  ● Hospital Management System, International Research Journal of Engineering
    and Technology (IRJET), Volume-07, Issue-04, April 2020
  ● A Web-Based Hospital Management System For Iganga District Hospital,
    Uganda, Vol-06, Issue-05, 2020
